# OODFinal

## Statement
This program is intended to be a simple PC Expert/Consultation with a client during the selection process of a new PC. First, the client has the option to choose between a Desktop or Laptop PC. If Desktop is chosen, the client has the ability to choose between a workstation, gaming desktop, or casual desktop as well as add their desired number of drives (up to 3). In addition to drives, the client may also choose to customize their computer with water cooling, either for their CPU, GPU, or both. If the laptop is chosen, they have a list of laptops to choose from (base models) and the ability to upgrade their ram if desired. Finally, the total price of their desired system is printed at the end.
  
## Patterns
The design patterns implemented included the following: Command, Factory, Template Method, and Decorator. The builder works with the desktop and laptop factory using buildDesktop() and chooseLaptop(). The decorator pattern was implemented for desktop selections only, specifically when choosing storage options (StorageDecorator) or water cooling customizations (WaterCoolDecorator). The template method pattern was implemented to distinguish the laptops between a Windows device (WindowsLaptop) or a Mac device (MacLaptop). Finally, the command pattern was implemented as a callback for the buildReady() method. Lastly, hooks were used in the individual laptop model selection classes.

## Challenges
The most difficult part during the development process was attempting to incorporate desktop components into a JSON file organized by manufacturer while still implementing compatibilty checks per user selections. Because of this, and my limited skill set currently, I was unable to properly get this functioning by deadline and decided to move towards a combination of Factory and Decorator patterns to allow for user customization and discrepancies of PC type (desktop or laptop). During the troubleshooting process, I did increase my knowledge of the Jackson Library and familiarity with Eclipse (I primarily use PyCharm and VSCode at work). But that increase did not result in a skillset strong enough to implement in this timeframe. 
## Future Plans
Continuing with this project, I would like to incorporate an external database (such as mondoDB or SQL) to host the components with their attributes to be selected by the client. This would allow for the customization process to be more extensive and be more widely used. Right now, the user does not have the ability to choose indivdual parts, the addition of this would also greatly enhance the usability of the program. In addition to this, I would like to add a GUI, user-authentication, and URL's to products for clients to be able to purchase their chosen suite of products or even individual products. 
